Blog: is this the death of benefits selling? (#4483)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/features-sell.md

---
date: 2022-10-20

> title: "Is this the death of benefits selling?"

Reviewer: On first glance, I don't really know what "benefits selling" means. Some ideas for alternatives:
- The death of selling benefits
- The death of selling based on "why"
- Your "why" doesn't sell anymore
- I don't want to be sold by your "why"

> title: "Is this the death of benefits selling?"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Please don't sell me on your \"why\""
```

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ["CEO diaries", "Inside PostHog"]
author: ["james-hawkins"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-ceo-diary-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
---

Features tell, benefits sell. Well, they used to.

> Marketing lore tells you that you must focus on the _why_, not the what. "No one buys a CRM, they buy a way to increase their revenue" - that sort of thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marketing lore tells you that you must focus on the _why_, not the what. "No one buys a CRM, they buy a way to increase their revenue" - the sort of thing you hear at a TED Talk.
```
Immediately brings to mind the Simon Sinek TED Talk haha (wonder if it's worth explicitly saying it.

> Marketing lore tells you that you must focus on the _why_, not the what. "No one buys a CRM, they buy a way to increase their revenue" - the sort of thing you hear at a TED Talk.

Author: ```suggestion
Marketing lore tells you that you must focus on the _why_, not the what. "No one buys a CRM, they buy a way to increase their revenue".
```

Author: removed simon sinek reference as it's exactly the same concept, but marketers don't usually quote him

> I'm sure this worked great when it was invented. But now, it feels tired and out-of-touch to end users. I think developers are especially sensitive to vague language when evaluating products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm sure this worked great when it was invented. But now, it feels tired and out-of-touch. Developers seem especially sensitive to vague language when evaluating products.
```

It makes me feel like I'm being sold to, by someone who doesn't know what they're talking about.

> Worse, benefits-heavy and feature-light language makes it hard to know what you're actually buying. I can evaluate for myself what benefits something brings, I want to see how it works, and how it compares to other products, instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Worse, benefits-heavy and feature-light language makes it hard to know what you're actually buying. I can evaluate for myself what benefits something brings, I want to see how it works, and how it compares to other products.
```

> Highlighting benefits makes sense, as a backup in case I don't get it. For executives who don't really use the software, and who certainly don't implement it - go nuts. For everyone else, benefits-oriented language is a poor user experience - it gets in the way of explaining the product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Highlighting benefits makes sense, as a backup in case I don't get it. For executives who don't use the software, and certainly don't implement it - go nuts. For everyone else, benefits-oriented language is a poor user experience - it gets in the way of explaining the product.
```

> Often, users _do_ know the product category they're interested in. I know, for example, the approximate benefits a CRM brings, and I want to choose one that suits my team particularly well. Otherwise I wouldn't have been looking for one in the first place. Show me how your features stack up. Please don't tell me you'll "drive gorwth with magical customer 360 experiences" (Salesforce's homepage today) - this doesn't help me compare you to your competitors, and it makes me feel like you value my wallet over my user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, users _do_ know the product category they're interested in. I know, for example, the approximate benefits a CRM brings, and I want to choose one that suits my team particularly well. Otherwise I wouldn't have been looking for one in the first place. Show me how your features stack up. Please don't tell me you'll "drive growth with magical customer 360 experiences" (Salesforce's homepage today) - this doesn't help me compare you to your competitors, and it makes me feel like you value my wallet over my user experience.
```

Reviewer: I don't think "it makes me feel like you value my wallet over my user experience." is the right ending. Maybe something like "you're manipulating me instead of helping me decide if you are actually useful"

---

> date: 2022-10-27

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2022-11-02
```

Highlighting benefits makes sense, as a backup in case I don't get it. For executives who don't use the software, and certainly don't implement it - go nuts. For everyone else, benefits-oriented language is a poor user experience - it gets in the way of explaining the product.

## What we've tried at PostHog

At PostHog, we've found this a lot harder as our product has become bigger.

We started off as "open source product analytics". This means people instantly know what we do, which is more important than saying something like "build a better product" or "understand your users better".

As we grew, we quickly built many more products into the platform. Today, we provide product analytics, session recording, feature flags, experimentation and a range of apps. This is when it got harder to decsribe what we do in a one liner.

We went for "Open Source Product OS. A suite of product and data tools. Built on the modern data stack.", then immediately included the list of them underneath.

This created [a large debate](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/3620) internally. 

> We ran an a/b test, using your favourite open source product OS, and happily saw it had no impact on conversion rate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We ran an a/b test, using your favorite open source product OS, and happily saw it had no impact on conversion rate.
```
